dream great from being vegetarianism
Oh reason you might not recognize right
so a lot of people change their names
and they change their avatar that change
little photo so how would I how would I
possibly remember you right but that's
great okay so you you you made the
transition from vegetarian to because
I'm happy to hear that so what was the
problem was it b12 or what went wrong
for you we're taking about 70% of the
veggies out there I can't do not say
really really well I don't if you know
Crohn's disease Crohn's disease was a
funny turning point of my channel
because you know durianrider was selling
this myth that veganism would cure
crohn's disease because but you and I
had a conversation where I hardly went
to cheat a stream and I kept saying hey
you know I watched your videos and
you're the reason I'm trying to
transition because totally kissing his
ass and I'm like you're the reason I'm
trying to transition because of all the
wonderful benefits veganism his head
under Crohn's disease right so you were
pretending pretending he really had
Crohn's disease we know he didn't right
yeah
wonderful this and that and then I
called them you know if you had friends
what type did you have what parts of
your body all this other chip
medications were you he just literally
shut me he also he also never gets the
details right about the test he took he
makes up stories but the diagnostic test
he doesn't even know what the diagnostic
tests are that are used to establish
that you had promised t so even that
part of his story can't possibly be true
that's right yeah there's no way and on
his diet he was ever vegetarian or vegan
I just want to put in one footnote here
it is true some people find improvement
by having more soluble fiber in their
diet with Crohn's disease but some of
people but right but some people their
Crohn's disease gets worse so I've had
several vegans get in touched me to
dispute this and very often they send me
a link to some s some you know
peer-reviewed paper on this and I just
point out to them if you actually read
the paper you think that's what you're
gonna find a certain percentage got
better but somewhat worse so Crohn's is
a very tricky very inconsistent
condition to treat and some treatments
were for some people some of the time
that's the state we're at with the
science there is like there's a
difference between an incurable disease
and a disease for which there is no
known cure
but Crohn's disease is definitely a case
of a disease for which there is no known
cure and in many cases we don't even
understand why people with the disorder
respond to their diet the way they do
okay the long and short of the answer of
what causes Crohn's to kick in is that
you might be a genetic carrier for the
trait but there are also
mental issues that will throw you into
I'm sure you know there's also there's
also the basically the anti immune
disorder theory then you can treat it by
doing things like using bee stings and
what-have-you
so and again it sometimes works but you
know the science doesn't seem to be all
the way done that way other wild covered
in like cooking oil and doing the
Lambada would help me I would do it it's
just if my highest was going between 24
and 27 times a day I've had over 20
surgeries I was the one that was in the
hospital for a year because I ended up
with having few emergency surgeries for
blockages and then I was in the ICU and
a coma two months I just want to see I
think many people watching this video
will be wanting me to state my moral
position on this you're not the only
person I've talked to who for medical
reasons as far as we now understand
medical science has been ordered to go
back on a meat diet or a vision or a
non-vegan that I have known people and
you know I do I do really sympathize the
position they're in I think that you
know in the future I think these are
exactly the gray gray areas of medical
knowledge that probably will get ironed
out like I think it would it's very
difficult for me believe that when
Crohn's DS when Crohn's disease is fully
understood that it would be impossible
to be vegan and to have Crohn's disease
but that may be a hundred years from now
I mean you know the scientific progress
this area is not going to be that fast
and you know for these people they're
there to question so just really briefly
cuz I know my audience will want me to
take some kind of hard moral stand on
this there are people who are making the
best decision they can with the
available information there are people
who are making a decision that is life
or death and there are people are making
a decision that has terrible impact
they're on their quality of life right
now which is very very different from
someone choosing to eat a hamburger just
because they think it tastes good or
just because so I really do I really do
sympathise and I think it you know it
reflects the historical period we're in
in terms of understanding crosses okay
so you went you you you remained kind of
a reduced read you try to be
participating as little as possible in
factory farms and so on right you know
in my mind ethically aren't harming the
animals so or I just substitutes for
things honey has has been a real godsend
for me as tumeric for its healing
properties but anymore because I feel
like I'm adding to the problem so I just
switched over to I'm not even sure just
better really briefly I knew someone who
couldn't eat any legumes of any kind so
no beans no nuts she had the most
extreme form of that where she would
actually have a heart attack if she ate
anything with that and you know for
those people even that so that's a
really extreme health condition so you
could die on the spot if she ate beans I
still do think there's a moral
obligation on them to figure out how
what is doing the best you can because
my whole approach to morality is based
on doing the best you can for someone
with severe Crohn's disease the the
answer is going to be very different or
some of that kind of really insane
allergy but I really commend you because
you does sound I mean like eliminating
honey and stuff it does sound like
you're making a sincere effort to
do the best you can I mean back in the
day and this is gonna sound
ass-backwards were the easiest on my
body because the simple sugars were the
easiest for my body to digest things
like Lunchables and I lived off that
stuff for two years and I was losing
weight the Lunchables diet the process I
[Music]
mean we have a burden now where the
ileostomy I had last year kind of almost
reset my system so that now I am able to
increase a lot of the vegetables I
wasn't able to eat before but in small
amounts now I can't eat them and enjoy
them good so again it's like you say
what causes this in my case if you like
I know what caused my Crohn's my mother
my grandmother and my brother and two of
my cousins Oh some type of gastritis
ulcerative colitis just different GI
problems given if still missing it seems
clear there's some genetic component to
it have you have you looked into or have
you experienced it's given that you've
already had multiple surgeries have you
looked in or have you experienced the
the treatments that that approached it
as an autoimmune disease such as taking
insects eggs the eggs of worms or
yeah or or bee sting you know wasp sting
therapy and I says any of that been
tried with you or no so they were
actually treating you with some kind of
parasite to try to get the the
autoimmune reaction to be directed
towards the parasite rather than the
body and I take it it didn't work or
didn't work very well and again this
being before I was vegan I was on the
biologic Samara the Remicade Mouse
proteins which now that I know that I
would never go on them again just
because I feel it's kind of disgusting
and it makes you susceptible to every
cold cough and rash okay so it's more a
matter of just being hyper vigilant
about watching what I eat you know
making sure that I have a lot of imodium
what I wanted to tell you was the age of
16 I started to get very bad cystic acne
my nose like I was on that antibiotic
for six years and then I started to
develop antibiotic for that must impact
your digestion right flora and bacteria
and my
probably is what propelled me into
having a well as you know there's really
nothing I can say except I'm I'm sorry
to hear that I mean you know yeah yeah
you know I mean you know as I say there
is you know it's not the case that
Crohn's disease is an incurable disease
but right now in 2018 it is there is
genuinely no known cure and you know
medical doctors are just human beings
they're not members of a vast conspiracy
you know they're not that's also during
writers approach is to vilify the
doctors and say that the doctors are
secretly trying to keep you down you
know the doctors you know they may not
know much more than you as a patient
you've been a patient for so many years
and researching it and reading about it
because you're suffering with it you
know but the doctors are human beings
coping with with very imperfect
information and in this case of Crohn's
disease
the same treatment can have totally
different outcomes for two different
patients and we don't know why we do not
know why so there's this sense of trying
all over the place my biggest whatever I
I tried to stay out of the ER because I
literally did spend all of 2016 I came
home I fought for six months to have my
second then in September a pound of
cantaloupe cantaloupe sized my rate over
which they said in the beginning was
precancerous then after the surgery when
they did more studies on biopsies told
me that it was super early stage one so
I've been avoiding the ER for a long
time now and just self-regulating with
the medications that I know worked for
me but my husband being the brains of
the operation
and it's like night and day all of the
money that I spent on prednisone and
biologics and antipsychotics all these
different you know meds that give you
10,000 other symptoms and two tablets a
few more today have helped so I'm gonna
put up this video I'm not gonna edit
that out but I've got to say again you
understand how dangerous this can be on
the internet cuz some other person you
said before you were desperate for any
hope you know someone like durianrider
suggests this you're you know you're
someone who if someone told you to use a
magical talisman to cure it you know I'm
also afraid you say that and I put this
on my channel I'm afraid someone else is
gonna quit all their meds and try to
write so guys again
keep them up as you said if I no no I
understand no it's fine it's fine but I
just say again this is this is an
illness where different treatments have
different outcomes for different people
and this is not medical advice but she's
talking about something that worked for
her or something that helped alleviate
her symptoms
okay look think look I've gotta wrap it
up it's been more than 15 minutes thank
you for coming on the show no it's okay
I mean I do sympathise and it's a
terrible struggle that you're in I mean
it's terrible struggle nutritionally
it's treble struggle of life and death
but the thing I want to emphasize here
is even for someone with a health
condition this extreme where the
consequences are so high in terms of
your suffering when they're in their
d'art this is someone who is still
trying to make the effort to do the best
that you can